MOVEMENT, BATTLE, OPERATIONS

When you are in the dungeon you will always have
some choice of operations. If a monster is present
you must fight or run. If treasure is present you
must choose whether to pick it up. At any other time
you may move or cast spells.

Movement follows the arrows UP, RIGHT, DOWN, LEFT.

To break through a door, press ‘b' followed
by an arrow indicating which door.

Secret doors exist; these may be broken through
as any other door. However, unless you detect them
(1/6 chance when you pass) they will still appear
to be walls.

NOTE: Doors always slam shut again.

Monsters may live in the rooms you enter. Treasure
will be found only in rooms. Monsters can also roam
around the corridors; these tend to turn up at
random intervals during your trip.

You cannot run from a monster when you are in a
room. You can do so in a corridor, but you may fail
to escape (chance varies with the monster level).

When you and a monster have combat, you take
alternating swings at each other (dexterity gives
the first swing) until one is dead.

Whenever you kill a monster you gain experience
points, and the nastier the monster, the more
points you get. Experience ranges from 10 points
for a kobold or giant rat to 840 points for a
dragon (lots of luck!). You also gain experience
for any treasure you bring out of the dungeon
(see the section on treasure).

As your experience increases, you become more
powerful. The section on magic/clerical spells
includes the experience vs. level table.

Your new experience level is computed whenever
you leave the dungeon (by the exit only, of course).

TIME AND TURNS

The time you spend in the dungeon is measured in
"turns" of about 3 minutes each. The operations you
can perform take the following numbers of turns:

Walk one square: 1/4 turn

Bust door (succeed or fail): 1/2 turn

Cast spell: 1/2 turn

Fight battle: 1 turn

Kill sleeping or charmed monster: 1 turn
Pick up treasure (search it out and pack it
in your knapsack): 1/2 turn

Some of the spells run for a certain number of
turns, as specified in the tables.

There is a 1/6 chance every 4 turns that a
“random monster" will jump you. This can occur at
any spot in the dungeon.
